man in the middle arp poisoning  hijacking connections how does all of  that actually work now especially if  we're studying ethical hacking or  learning about cyber security these are  going to be terms that we absolutely  hear i'm going to show you how to do art  poisoning with a man in the middle  attack but we're going to capture it  with wireshark so that you can learn how  the protocols actually work instead of  just pushing buttons on a tool we're  going to learn how these protocols  actually do what they do so let's get to  it  all right so arp poisoning with a  man-in-the-middle attack to do that  we're going to use a tool called  ettercap now if you've never used  ettercat before go ahead and go download  it you can install it on your machine or  if you have kali linux it's already  right there for you now here i have my  two vms and on the right here i have my  kali linux box and on the left you can  see i've just got a windows 10 machine  so what i'm going to do the windows 10  machine is going to be my target machine  what i'm going to do is i'm going to  intercept traffic coming and going to  this machine and i'm going to be able to  do so by staging an arp poisoning attack  a man in the middle from the kali linux  machine now both of these are guest vms  on my local system however if these were  machines on a real connected cabled  network we could also do a very similar  attack okay so to start off to look at  how this is going to work first let's  take a look at my kali linux machine i'm  going to do something up arp dash a and  what i'd like you guys to do is take a  close look at the mac addresses that we  see here so here my system it can see  three other machines it can see  3.15 and dot one well not one as our  default gateway so i want you to do is  just pay close attention to those last  four values that we see here thirty five  zero zero okay just trying to burn that  in the back of your mind  also with dot 15 you can see there 27 cd  that's the virtual mac address for the  windows system over here  okay so just to be sure though let's go  ahead and do an ifconfig so by doing an  ifconfig here i can see what my local  address is on this machine on the kali  linux machine so 2.4 all right so now  that we have a bit of a lay of the land  here on the cali machine let's go ahead  and go over to the windows box so i'm  going to go ahead and just open up a  command prompt  and what i'm going to do is come here  i'm just going to do ipconfig  okay so here i can see that this is the  machine that's 2.15 and if i do an rp-a  here i can see the systems that this  machine knows about at layer 2. these  are the other mac addresses that it's  aware of so let's go and take a look at  that first one 2.1 there we've got 3500  sounds familiar it was the same one that  the kali linux machine knew about and if  i come to dot four there i can see 53 72  okay so this is a simple network only a  couple machines and a default gateway so  now how does a man in the middle our  poisoning attack really work well let's  go ahead and take a look  so here i've got my windows 10 machine  okay so windows 10  and  he is aware of the router right he's  already arp for that router this is dot  one and that router's responded so he's  aware of what his mac address is in  order for windows 10 to communicate out  into the internet and off this network  it's very important that he know the mac  address of that interface so we saw that  in the arp table now when he sends a  message out and a message comes back in  this gateway needs to be aware of the  mac address for the windows 10 machine  so that's already happened they've  already arped they're aware of each  other's mac addresses so now those mac  addresses can be used as the source and  destination mac addresses in the  ethernet frame and we're going to see  that in a little bit in wireshark so  here's the issue if i'm on a switch if  i'm just on a network switch here so if  i want to come in here like a hacker or  hopefully an ethical hacker and i want  to intercept that traffic this is where  i do my man in the middle from but  here's the thing about a network switch  you see when the windows 10 box sends a  message over to the gateway the switch  is only going to forward it out to this  outbound interface the switch already  knows where that gateway is because it's  already heard its mac address and  updated its cam table well the same is  true in the opposite direction when the  gateway responds when it sends a message  or a message comes from another network  back to this windows 10 box that gateway  then sends it over and the switch will  only send it out that outbound interface  so if i'm sitting here like an attacker  if i want to be that man in the middle  if i'm sitting here i don't hear  anything i'm only going to hear  broadcast multicast and traffic to and  from myself so i can't just plug into  the switch and just hope that i can  capture the traffic to and from this  windows 10 box so in order to do so  really to break the rules of switching  if you will what i'm going to do is i'm  going to tell the windows 10 box that i  am in fact the gateway and i'm going to  do that with arp i'm going to go ahead  and tell the windows 10 box that i'm  one  and over here on the other side i'm also  going to send an arp packet over here to  the router and i'm going to say hey i'm  actually 15. so now both of these  devices think  that i'm the other one the windows 10  box thinks that i'm the router the  router thinks that i'm the windows 10  box okay so let's actually do this man  in the middle attack now let's actually  see how we can use the edit cap tool to  do that arp poisoning so on kali linux  before we bring up edit cap first i also  want to make sure that you have a  setting in your system and it's an  important one you see this  system control  net.ipv4.ip underscore forward equals  one  this is a command that we have to enter  into our system in order for our system  to actually forward traffic on otherwise  if the windows 10 box thinks that i'm  the gateway i'm not going to forward  that traffic on to the real gateway this  is what allows that forwarding to happen  so this is an important thing we have to  do before we kick off ettercap okay so  now that that's set i'm going to go  ahead and close this i'm going to come  up to my my uh drop down menu and i'm  going to type in header cap  and i'm going to use the graphical  editor cap for now  and while i'm doing this with editor cap  something else i'm going to do in the  background is do that thing that we all  came here to see and that's the  wireshark stuff so let's go ahead and  open up wireshark as well okay so what  i'm going to do in the background before  i actually start to inject those arps is  i'm first going to capture them because  i want to make sure that you understand  at the packet level how ettercap is  doing that are poison so i'm going to  come up here to ethernet 0 that's going  to be the interface that i capture with  i'm just going to double click it and  now i have wireshark running in the  background all right so let's go ahead  and just put this off to the side all  right so now with edit cap i go ahead  and bring up editor cap and my primary  interface ethernet 0 that's the one i'm  going to select and for right now i'm  not going to do bridged sniffing  i only have one interface coming into  this vm i don't have two interfaces  packets coming in one and going out the  other it's all coming in and going out  of the same interface so i don't have to  use bridge sniffing here all right so  let's go ahead and check this all right  so the first thing that i have to do  with edit cap is i need to tell it who  the two targets are the windows 10 box  and also the gateway so that it knows  how to build that arp poison  now  to make this simple i'm first just going  to come up and hit the search key button  that search thing and what that does is  it actually sends out a bunch of arp  traffic scanning through the local  subnet and then looking at what systems  respond so here i've got four hosts that  were added to the host list now here's  something to think about if you're  trying to be really stealth and if  you're doing an actual pen test that's  something that you're not going to want  to do you're not going to just throw out  the fact that you're arping the entire  subnet that could trigger some alarm so  just be very careful if you use that  search here in my little lab i don't  care about that however if i was on a  pen test that's something that i would  want to think about okay so let's go  ahead and come up now to my hosts here i  can see what systems i have active now  this is where i can configure my man in  the middle first i'm going to take a  look at 2.15 remember that was the  windows box that we have over here that  was 2.15 and i'm gonna come and make him  target number one  after that i'm going to come up here to  2.1 and i'm gonna come over here to  target number two all right so now i  have my two targets configured so now  let's go ahead and set up that arp  poison before i do that i'm going to  come back out here to my wireshark  capture i'm just going to reset this  just to make sure that i can see i don't  have to see all of those arps go and  continue without saving come back to  edit cap now let's go ahead and come up  here and this gives us our man in the  middle menu uh just for this video we're  just going to look at art poisoning so  let's come here go to art poisoning and  this is going to ask a couple questions  so it's going to say okay sniff remote  connections only poison one way we can  just leave this at the default sniff  remote connections and hit ok  so you see here over here  in wireshark we're actually able to  capture these arp poison attacks so what  we want to do let's go and see if it  worked i'm going to come back over here  to my windows box now remember before  i thought that 2.1 was at  3500 that was the mac address of my  gateway but let's just take a look now  let's go to arp dash a  and now let's take a look you see now  2.1 has changed now 53.72  or the editor cap box  windows thinks that that's the gateway  all right so how did that happen well if  i come here here i can see let's go  ahead and take a look at this first  packet here let's actually take a look  at the packets that's that's going to be  fun  okay now i'm just going to come down  here i'm going to select that first arp  that i see this is the first packet that  went out when i actually did the attack  okay so ethernet 2 let's go ahead and  take a look at these mac addresses so  the source is coming from the amount in  the middle box and i'm sending it to 27  cd which is the windows 10 device all  right so that's the unicast from the man  in the middle box to windows 10 this is  an arp let's go ahead and expand this  and see what this looks like now here's  the key if i take those if i take a look  at this down here this is an opcode  reply or a two  so this is what we call an unsolicited  arp reply i'm giving the windows 10 box  an arp response that it never asked for  it didn't arp for the gateway i'm just  telling it this is the gateway's address  alright so let's just see how that works  here's my sender's mac address this is  53.72 so that's the man in the middle  and i'm telling him hey  i'm 2.1  right so i know that your gateway is 2.1  that's who i am  i'm impersonating him now i'm the target  this is windows 10 device and windows  10.  well right after that check out what i  do in the opposite direction  now if i come down to the next packet  down  this is where i can see i'm coming from  the man in the middle and i'm going to  3500 so this is to the gateway but check  out what i'm saying to him this is an a  reply so again this is not an op code  one that would be an arp request instead  this is just a reply who's sending it  man in the middle this time i'm acting  like i'm 2.15  so now i'm the windows 10 device i'm  acting as if i was him so the man in the  middle that's how it does the arp poison  is it sends these unsolicited arp  replies in each direction to the gateway  and to the windows 10 device what that  does is that breaks their arp table  thinking that i'm actually the gateway  and the opposite in the other direction  so let's go ahead and see if that worked  so i'm going to come down here remember  before we weren't able to capture those  ping packets right so i'm going to  scroll all the way to the down and i'm  going to take a look at ping  dot google.com and over here now i can  actually see those ping replies coming  i'm capturing and forwarding those pings  through the man in the middle now let's  see what else we can do if i just open  up microsoft edge over here let's open  up a browser and let's do a little  browsing you can see over here on the  right a bunch of traffic going by i'm  capturing packets a lot of black lines  and red letters we're going to talk  about that stuff on my channel don't  worry and if i come up here let's just  go ahead and hit our favorite site  wireshark.org  now here i am capturing  the traffic passively this is how i'm  able to execute a man-in-the-middle  poison attack  i'm making windows 10 think that i'm the  gateway and i'm making the gateway think  that i'm the windows 10 box so here my  page loaded i was able to capture that  traffic and just for now what i'm going  to do is run back to edit cap and i'm  going to go ahead and stop my man in the  middle attack  now just because we were able to do that  right now with arps doesn't mean that  we're able to decrypt everything that we  just saw everything that went by us  especially those tls sessions that we  saw those are still encrypted but for  the purposes of this video what i wanted  to do was show you how an arp poison  actually works remember that you're  sending unsolicited arp replies in each  direction and that makes each endpoint  think that you're the other party so if  you like this video on a man in the  middle attack and how an art poison  actually works at the packet level let  me know go ahead and comment down below  please like subscribe if you haven't and  we'll make sure to do more content like  this in the very near future take care  [ __ ] people  [Music]  you